doc: DOCSP-54251 & DOCSP-54252  -- Document how to move from or to Service Accounts authentication (#3753)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: docs/guides/migrate-to-service-accounts-authentication-guide.md

---
page_title: "Migration Guide: Service Accounts Authentication"
---

# Migration Guide: Service Accounts Authentication

This guide helps you migrate from Programmatic Access Key (PAK) authentication to Service

> Accounts (SA) authentication and viceversa without impacting your deployment. 

Reviewer: Isn't this guide just to demonstrate how to migrate from PAK to SA? Should we recommend/suggest migrating from SA to PAK? Also vice versa is a latin phrase that doesn't translate well. 
```suggestion
This guide helps to you migrate from Programmatic Access Key (PAK) authentication to Service
Accounts (SA) authentication without impacting your deployment. 
```

**Note:** For more information on SA, see [Service Accounts Overview](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/api/service-accounts-overview/)
in the MongoDB documentation.

## Procedure

1. Change your provider declaration variables.

    The following example declares PAK authentication:

    ```terraform
    provider "mongodbatlas" {
    public_key = var.mongodbatlas_public_key
    private_key  = var.mongodbatlas_private_key
    ```

    To change to SA, declare the variables as in the following example:

    ```terraform
    provider "mongodbatlas" {
    client_id = var.mongodbatlas_client_id
    client_secret  = var.mongodbatlas_client_secret
    }

>     ```

Reviewer: To improve clarity, suggest:

```suggestion
    For example, consider the following sample PAK authentication variables:

    ```terraform
    provider "mongodbatlas" {
    public_key = var.mongodbatlas_public_key
    private_key  = var.mongodbatlas_private_key
    ```

    To change to SA, modify the variables to use your SA client_id and client_secret:

    ```terraform
    provider "mongodbatlas" {
    client_id = var.mongodbatlas_client_id
    client_secret  = var.mongodbatlas_client_secret
    }
    ```
```

> 2. Provide a valid JSON Web Token (JWT):

Reviewer 2: I am not 100% clear on this. When I read it seems like we're saying 
Step 1. Use `client_id` and `client_secret`
Step 2. Add the `access_token` attribute

which should not be the case. Instead it's "you either use client_id+client_secret or access_token"

Author: Addressed, now the doc shows client_id+client_secret and access_token as alternative paths.

   ```terraform
   provider "mongodbatlas" { 
   access_token = var.mongodbatlas_access_token
   [is_mongodbgov_cloud = true // optional]
   }
   ```

    The JWT token is only valid during its set duration time. See [Generate Service Account Token](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/api/service-accounts/generate-oauth2-token/#std-label-generate-oauth2-token-atlas) for more details on creating an SA token.

>    **IMPORTANT:**  Currently, the MongoDB Terraform provider does not support additional Token OAuth features.

Reviewer 2: Q: what do we mean with this?

Author: Definitely the phrasing is not the better (changes incoming), but there are 3 ideas here: 

1. The token expires. 
2. Redirect the user to the Atlas SA docs. 
3. "the MongoDB Terraform provider does not support additional Token OAuth features." I'm explicitly stating a suggestion mentioned in the project scope doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PuAwTTNbVLUsqMH9wmmHKUCbEojhkQ_oHL2ONxwXZhs/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.5c9t51nomy3f. However, i'm not sure if we actually need to have this in the final version.

Reviewer 2: we need @bodegus inputs here, can you reach out to him?

>    **NOTE:** You can not use ``mongodbatlas_event_trigger`` with Service Accounts as the authentication method.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a why? @lantoli

Reviewer 3: we can say it's not supported, e.g.: 

**NOTE:** Service Accounts  is not currently supported as the authentication method for ``mongodbatlas_event_trigger`` resource.

>    **NOTE:** You can not use ``mongodbatlas_event_trigger`` with Service Accounts as the authentication method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **NOTE:** You can't use ``mongodbatlas_event_trigger`` with Service Accounts as the authentication method.
```

---

> page_title: "Migration Guide: Service Accounts Authentication"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
page_title: "Migration Guide: Service Accounts"
```

nit: remove authentication to make the menu item shorter as that word is implied.

same for doc title to be aligned

---

> # Migration Guide: Service Accounts Authentication

Reviewer 3: should we say motivation /  why it's recommend to migrate to SA, as we do in other guides?

Author: Agreed

This guide helps you migrate from Programmatic Access Key (PAK) authentication to Service

> Accounts (SA) authentication and viceversa without impacting your deployment.

Reviewer 3: nit: do we want to show the viceversa path?

Author: not really. I'll erase the viceversa here to avoid confusion

Author: Not really. I'll delete the viceversa.

Accounts (SA) authentication, change your provider declaration variables. You can implement
this change by either:

- Providing a client ID and secret

- Providing a valid access token

### Provide a Client ID and Secret

The following example shows the variables for PAK authentication:

```terraform
provider "mongodbatlas" {
public_key = var.mongodbatlas_public_key
private_key = var.mongodbatlas_private_key
}
```

To change to SA, declare the `client_id` and `client_secret` variables as in the following example:

```terraform
provider "mongodbatlas" {
client_id = var.mongodbatlas_client_id
client_secret = var.mongodbatlas_client_secret
}
```

### Provide a Valid Access Token

The following example shows SA authentication set up through the ``access_token`` attribute:

```terraform
provider "mongodbatlas" { 
access_token = var.mongodbatlas_access_token
[is_mongodbgov_cloud = true // optional]
}
```

Consider that the access token is **valid for one hour only**.

See [Generate Service Account Token](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/api/service-accounts/generate-oauth2-token/#std-label-generate-oauth2-token-atlas) for more details on creating an SA token. 

> **IMPORTANT:**  Currently, the MongoDB Terraform provider does not support additional Token OAuth features.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**IMPORTANT:**  Currently, the MongoDB Terraform provider does not support additional Token OAuth features like scopes.
```

nit: mentioning one of the most important missing features
